---
title: Windows Runtime Components
date: 2017-08-17 11:17:22
tags:
categories: UWP Notes
---

# What is Windows Runtime Components (WinRT Components)?
***

[Windows Runtime Components](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/winrt-components/) is a DLL that's callable from a Universal Windows app.

# Reasons for building WinRT Components
***

* To get the performance advantage of C++ in complex or computationally intensive operations.
* To reuse code that's already written and tested.

# Creating a WinRT component in C++ and calling it from C#
***

## Creating the C++ component DLL

1. New Project.
2. Expand Visual C++ and select Windows Runtime Component (Universal Windows) project.
3. Name the project WinRT_CPP.
4. Add a Cat class in the project as below.
5. Build the project.

```c++
namespace WinRT_CPP
{
	public ref class Cat sealed
	{
	public:
		Cat();
		int GetAge();

	private:
		int age;
	};
}
```

## Creating a C# client app

1. Select the Solution and choose Add, New Project.
2. Expand Visual C# and select Blank App (Universal Windows) project.
3. Choose Set as Startup project.
4. Add a reference to WinRT_CPP.
5. Now you can use the class defined as public in WinRT_CPP, such as Cat class.

```c++
var cat = new WinRT_CPP.Cat();
int age = cat.GetAge();
```

More detailed steps are [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/winrt-components/walkthrough-creating-a-basic-windows-runtime-component-in-cpp-and-calling-it-from-javascript-or-csharp). When you build a solution that contains a UWP project and a Windows Runtime component project, the UWP project files and the compiled DLL are merged into one package, which you can debug locally in the simulator or remotely on a tethered device.

# Support C++
***

The WinRT Components support both the standard C++ types and C++/CX types internally. However, the parameters passed in the external call method and the return type must use the C++/CX syntax types.

**For example:**

```c++
namespace WinRT_CPP
{
	public ref class Cat sealed
	{
	public:
		Cat();
		long GetAge(); // Error

	private:
		long age; // OK
	};
}
```

When you build the WinRT-Components project containing the `Cat` class above, the build will fail. The reason is that the return type of public method `GetAge()` is `long` and C++/CX don't support `long` type. However, you can define the age as a `long` type property because the age property is in the internal.

# Common Way to Use Standard C++ in WinRT Components
***

1. Input the parameters of C++/CX types
2. Convert the C++/CX types to standard C++ types
3. Write the standard C++ code
4. Convert the outputs from standard C++ type to C++/CX type
